[WHOOSH]
[MUSIC PLAYING]
[THEME MUSIC]
>>EMERY SMITH: Today
on "Cosmic Disclosure,"
we are with Richard Doty,
a retired special agent
who served in the
Air Force Office
of Special Investigations.
Richard was intimately
involved with UFO
ET-related intelligence.
Today, we are discussing
Operation Tandem Sled.
Richard, welcome to the show.
>>RICHARD DOTY:
Thank you, Emery.
Good to be here.
>>EMERY: So what is
Operation Tandem Sled?
>>DOTY: Tandem Sled is
a intelligent collection
operation conducted by
US intelligence service
inside the Soviet Union.
We knew the Soviet Union
captured downed UFOs,
and we wanted to know
what information they
had gathered about
these UFOs, and that's
what Tandem Sled was.
>>EMERY: Well, how
did they obtain
these crafts to begin with?
>>DOTY: Well, there
was two crashes
that we knew of that occurred
inside the Soviet Union.
One crash occurred in the
central part of the Soviet
Union, one in Ukraine.
And we knew this.
We obtained that information
from human sources
or human intelligence sources
or our spies on the ground,
so to speak, and from some
communications intelligence.
We also learned them about
traveling Soviet scientists
when they left the country.
They came to conventions.
They would hint that
they knew about UFOs
and they knew about
some crash UFOs,
and they related what
they knew about where
and when these UFOs crashed
inside the Soviet Union.
>>EMERY: Well, where
were they kept?
>>DOTY: They were
kept at a place called
Kapustin Yar, which is the
Soviet equivalent to Area 51.
It was located in the
southeastern portion
of the Soviet Union.
And we knew exactly where
they were being kept,
in building or Area number 107.
>>EMERY: Do they know
where they came from?
>>DOTY: The Soviets
had some ideas
that they came
from the same place
that the Ebens came from, Zeta
Reticuli, because the craft
that they had were
similar to the craft
that we captured in 1947.
>>EMERY: Oh, OK.
And how did the United States
actually know and become
aware that the Soviets
had these craft?
>>DOTY: We used human
sources or spies.
We would recruit
Soviet scientists
or Soviet intelligence officers
or Soviet military officers
that worked around there
or around Kapustin Yar,
and we tasked them with
finding the information.
>>EMERY: And what information
did the United States learn?
>>DOTY: Well, we learned
that these crafts were highly
advanced, that the
Soviets didn't understand
anything inside the crafts.
They couldn't get any of
the electrical systems
to work inside the crafts.
And we gathered this from
either talking to scientists
or actually
conducting operations.
Very, very secretive,
clandestine operations
where we sent intelligence
operatives, our own people,
or military personnel into
Kapustin Yar to examine these
crafts.
>>EMERY: Now, did
you personally see
any pictures or photographs
besides the debriefing
that you got?
>>DOTY: I was
involved in briefing
and preparing the teams
of military personnel
that were going into
the Soviet Union.
Our job was to brief them,
train them, tell them
what to look for.
We knew, or our scientists
knew, because we
had captured UFOs, what to
look for in the captured UFOs
that they had at Kapustin Yar.
So we would brief
our team members
on what to look for,
what to take pictures of,
what to analyze, and then if
they could capture anything,
any items or devices
on these crafts,
to get their hands on
them and bring them back.
>>EMERY: So would you say
that's the end mission
game, was to just
acquire the intel,
get some pieces of the craft,
or was there something else
being arranged to
acquire these vehicles
and bring them back to the US?
>>DOTY: My part of it was to
brief them on sending them
into a hostile environment.
And they had a number
of covers and a number
of reasons, a number
of systems that we use.
And I'm not going to go
into that, because they
may be still using them.
But we were able to get
teams of four to six people--
and some of them
were scientists,
but they were all military--
from Germany, from West
Germany, into the Soviet Union,
and get close enough to Kapustin
Yar where they would then
have to operate on their
own to get close enough
and to actually penetrate
Kapustin Yar to find out
this information that
we were asking them to.
And they were
tasked with getting
anything they can
get their hands on
and bringing them back.
Now, getting their hands on an
item, a device, or something
inside an alien craft and then
getting it out of the country
is really a task.
But there was a
system that we used,
the US intelligence system used.
It was highly classified
and involved the Soviet rail
system.
I mean, there was a way
that we could get something
from one part of
the Soviet Union
to another part using
the rail system.
And that's all I'm
going to say about that.
But we had a method
that if they could
get their hands on
something to get it
from Kapustin Yar to another
point, put it on a train,
and we would get it when
it arrived and in Moscow.
>>EMERY: What a
massive undertaking
event that must have been.
That mission right there
seems so dangerous.
>>DOTY: It was, and we
did lose some people.
And we lost some people
either being killed--
one particular person, we
don't know what happened.
The second person was captured.
Fortunately, he
was later released,
because they couldn't really--
other than he was
in a denied area,
they couldn't figure out
what he was doing there.
They never in their
wildest dreams
thought that he was
trying to penetrate
an area of Kapustin Yar.
But we had team members--
and I call them
heroes, because they
went above and beyond
the call of duty--
to get from one point--
and we could get them
close to Kapustin Yar,
but we couldn't
actually get them there.
They were within
about 20 kilometers.
And it was a denied zone
around Kapustin Yar.
It's about a 20-kilometer denied
zone, which is about 12 miles.
And we got them
close, and then they
had to operate on their
own to get from that point
into Kapustin Yar.
>>EMERY: So they
would actually have
to on foot or by other
means sneak in there.
They weren't coming in there as
employees or scientists saying,
I'm going to be working here.
Was it like that where-- did
you have the ability or did
the United States
have the ability
to get contracts
for these agents
so they would
actually be working
in these classified
Soviet areas?
>>DOTY: Well, there
were some teams that
were undercover with a
construction company,
and I'll leave it at that.
So they could get close, but
the construction company,
which was a West German
construction company,
they weren't allowed
inside the denied zone.
Their work was on something
outside the denied zone.
>>EMERY: So someone still would
have to go from the denied zone
out to the construction
or the secret railway
to get something exported.
>>DOTY: Yes, they would.
And it was very
difficult. As you said,
it was very
difficult to do that,
because the Soviet Union
during that time period
was a closed zone.
I mean, you couldn't
operate-- a foreigner couldn't
operate in the Soviet Union.
It was very difficult
for our spies,
even our embassy personnel.
Every time they
left the embassy,
they were being surveilled
by two or three KGB teams.
So it was very difficult
for them to operate.
But there were ways that they
figured out on their own.
And that's why I call them
heroes, because it wasn't
anything that we could do.
They did it on their own.
They operated on their own.
But almost all of them spoke
Russian or some other language
where they would have
to use their cover
in the West German construction
company or whatever
the business.
We also used oil,
an oil company,
which was allowed to
operate close to there.
Not in Kapustin Yar,
but close to it.
And one particular team was
able to get in, take pictures,
examine the craft,
and then get out.
And make it out and make it
back to Moscow, and then back
to West Germany.
>>EMERY: So the
mission was successful,
and they never knew that
the Americans had anything
to do with project Tandem?
>>DOTY: Tandem Sled, no.
What happened was years
later, we cooperated--
the Soviet scientists
cooperated--
and this is back in the
2000s, 2010 or '11--
where there was an
operation or a project
that brought in Soviet--
Russian scientists
then and US scientists
secretly to try to understand
the extraterrestrial phenomenon
and the technology that
was being offered at times
by the extraterrestrials.
Years later in 2010
or so, the Russians
and American scientists got
together, but not before then.
>>EMERY: Right.
Now, did you personally
see videos and photography?
And did you get to learn
about the propulsion
systems on these craft?
>>DOTY: Yes.
I saw pictures.
We didn't have an
analysis at the time I
saw the pictures or the video.
We didn't have an analysis
of what they obtained,
because these personnel
that went down there,
they were primarily
intelligence personnel.
They were Special
Operations personnel.
And their job was to go
down and take the pictures
and obtain whatever
they can and get out.
They didn't know really
what they were looking at,
although they knew that these
crafts were not US crafts.
They weren't Soviet-made crafts.
They were
extraterrestrial crafts.
So they didn't have a chance
to analyze it or explain
what they saw or what they
observed or what they obtained.
When I got to Moscow, I was
placed in a diplomatic pouch
and then sent to Germany.
And then we had access, and
we had to get it from Germany
back to the United States.
But we did see the photographs.
I did see the photographs.
The crafts were
conventional ET crafts.
There were saucer-shaped.
One was saucer-shaped.
One was more elliptical-shaped.
Both of them were
open to-- the Soviets
had been able to open them,
so there was access inside.
But the team only was able
to access the interior, one
of the crafts.
The other one, it was
just too dangerous.
Their time ran out,
so they couldn't
get into that second craft.
But the first craft
was the bigger craft,
and that craft was
quite elaborate inside.
It had seats.
It had a number of seats.
I think somewhere
between 10 and 12 seats.
It had display panels, a
number of display panels.
But all the display panels
had little finger areas
where apparently the
operators of the pilots
would place their fingers
in these certain areas.
They didn't have any
knobs or switches.
But there was beds.
They found beds in this one.
They considered them beds.
They found components
that they didn't know
what they were, such as tools.
But you've got to
remember, this team
had limited time
inside on target.
So when they went in, they
couldn't analyze anything.
They had to take pictures,
examine things, and get out.
And then they wrote
a report of what
they saw other
than-- and including
the pictures, what they took.
>>EMERY: Could you tell us, what
was the title of the team that
went in?
Were they the cleaning
crew, or what were they?
>>DOTY: There were a
covert operating team.
>>EMERY: Mm-hmm.
I mean, what was their--
what did they-- what did the
Russians think they were?
I mean, we know who they were.
I mean, that's what I'm saying.
Are they the cleaners that go
in and clean the craft at night?
>>DOTY: They were employees
of certain companies that
were working, sanctioned
inside the Soviet Union.
>>EMERY: Because it had
to be highly guarded.
>>DOTY: Well, yes, they were.
But then we had teams that
were not either one of those.
We had actual military teams
that infiltrated that area
and were operating.
And those are the teams who
were operating on their own,
and they had to be very careful.
And one of the things that we
had to help these teams that
went in there--
well, we had deep
cover operatives
that we had dropped in the
Soviet Union back in the--
>>EMERY: Long time ago.
>>DOTY: --'40s, '50s, and '60s.
Most of those were captured.
Most of those were found
out by the Soviets.
But there were some
that-- actually, eight
were able to penetrate
Soviet society
and they were working for us.
And those are the people--
and then one of the
reasons why we thought
we could be successful
is one of the people
was quite prominent in
that area of Kapustin Yar.
Not right at Kapustin
Yar, but in the area.
So he could accommodate some
of our covert operating teams
that came in there.
And he made the necessary
arrangements to set them up,
so to speak.
He couldn't actually get
him inside Kapustin Yar,
but he got them close enough,
and it was on their own--
and they were on
their own from there.
>>EMERY: Through
the intelligence
photographs and videos,
did you learn anything
about the propulsion
systems of this ET craft?
>>DOTY: The
propulsion system was
similar to the ion
propulsion system that's
been talked about by other
extraterrestrial crafts.
They had pods, although they--
it's all theory how
these pods operated.
And the scientists
could only theorize
that positive and negative
ions were infused together
into another
chamber, which would
cause high energy and a
propulsion of the craft.
>>EMERY: Were they successful
in getting these craft up
and running?
>>DOTY: Not that we know of.
Not as of 1988.
I'm not sure what
occurred after that.
There are some even
internet chatter
about the Russians
reverse-engineered a craft that
was flying around Siberia.
>>EMERY: Do we know
anything about the beings
that flew these craft?
>>DOTY: Yes.
We did know that
one craft crashed,
and the beings or
the entities piloting
that craft were killed.
And we do know where they
were at Kapustin Yar,
and we do know that the
bodies, the four bodies
were transported
to an institute,
a pathological institute
south of Moscow.
And we do know that the Soviets
performed autopsies on these.
And I believe-- we do know
that one of those autopsies
leaked out some years ago
and was on the internet.
What they actually found
as far as the anatomy
or the physiology of these
entities, I wasn't aware of.
But I know they had
them, and I know
they did autopsies on them.
I think the autopsy on the
internet was very credible.
And I think that is connected to
the one that I saw years later.
And I only saw a
small segment of it.
But I had a person, a physician
who saw the entire thing
and analyzed it, sit
down and tell me,
that was a very credible
autopsy by Soviet standards.
>>EMERY: Were there any other
initial intel follow-ups
with any of this?
>>DOTY: There was a lot.
I mean, we were still collecting
communications intelligence.
We tapped phone lines
and telegraph lines
coming from Kapustin
Yar to other places,
and we were able
to collect data.
Because the scientists that
were studying the crafts
inside Kapustin Yar
in Area 107, they
were categorizing what
they were finding.
And Moscow wanted
that information
at their Institute of
Technology immediately.
So they were sending that stuff
as fast as they could get it,
and we were collecting some--
>>EMERY: That's more and
more intel for you guys.
>>DOTY: Exactly.
I don't know exactly how much.
I wasn't on that end of it.
But I know we were
collecting it,
and exactly what
we were collecting,
I'm sure there was a
whirlwind of stuff.
>>EMERY: So from day one until--
how long did they
stop collecting?
Or is it just--
>>DOTY: Oh, it's
probably still going on.
From probably the '60s
up until the '80s.
And I'm sure-- you know, I
think probably after the Soviet
Union fell in '91,
1991 time frame,
it might have slowed down.
But the spying, the
Russian spying against us
and we spying against the
Russians, that'll never stop.
>>EMERY: Right.
Of course.
What more can you tell us
about the Copper Green Program?
>>DOTY: Copper Green
was a classified program
where we shared information
that we gathered
on extraterrestrials
with not just Russia,
but some other countries
that had gathered information
about extraterrestrials
and UFOs.
And we worked closely
with scientists
from other countries
such as Russia
and try to understand
the technology.
Now remember, the
technology's so advanced
that even today, we
don't fully understand
the reverse engineering or the
extraterrestrial technology.
And years ago, 10 or
12 years ago, we still
weren't understanding
it, and especially back
in the '60s and '70s.
Well, this program didn't
start until the Soviet
Union collapsed.
I think it started
sometime in the '90s.
And we're gathering as
much information as we can.
And I'm sure there's
a lot of information
that we're not going
to share with them,
and they're not going
to share with us.
>>EMERY: Absolutely.
It's always on a
trade, bargain usually
when we do something like that.
What other countries,
Rick, can you
tell me that were part of
that Copper Green Program?
>>DOTY: Copper Green
involved Germany, Japan.
I believe India
was involved in it.
Turkey, Saudi Arabia,
and South Africa.
Those are the ones-- and Canada.
The ones I know for sure.
I'm sure there were others.
I understand there's
probably 30 countries,
but I don't know
every one of them.
I just know those for sure
that were involved in it.
>>EMERY: Now, is it still going
on to this day, Copper Green?
>>DOTY: Well I think it is.
I'm not an expert
in that area, and I
can guess that it's
probably still going on.
Because I know at
one point when I
was working for
another institute
that there were
scientists at Area 51.
So I was wondering, what
are they doing there
if it's not still going on?
>>EMERY: And how developed is
the Russian Unidentified Aerial
Phenomena Project?
>>DOTY: They're
becoming more advanced,
I'm sure, over the years.
Back in the
intelligence days that I
was involved in the
program, the Soviets
weren't that advanced as far
as the UFO technology went.
They were still trying
to catch up to us.
And so their technology
was far inferior.
And so they tried--
they were trying more
to catch up with us rather
than some extraterrestrial
technology that was thousands
and thousands of years ahead
of them.
And they realized it, you know?
They had common sense.
We're not going to
understand this.
realize what this is.
But let's just steal the
Americans' technology, which
they've done over the years.
>>EMERY: So we've noticed--
we're seeing the same
craft and beings in Russia
and also in the United States.
Now is there some
correlation, or is there
something going on where
behind the scenes politically,
the ETs are conversing with
the government of Russia,
conversing with the government
of the United States separately
or jointly?
>>DOTY: I'm not sure.
I'm sure that somebody
above my pay grade
probably could
answer that better.
But I do know that there is
some common ground, so to speak,
involving
extraterrestrial races.
They're not just visiting Earth.
They're visiting-- I
mean, the United States.
They're visiting all over.
>>EMERY: What do you
think about the language?
Because it seems
that other languages
have had an easier time
speaking and communicating
with these beings.
>>DOTY: We found that out a long
time ago, that language is--
different languages sometimes
attracts different races
of ETs.
There was a study done back in
the '50s by an Air Force group,
advisory group.
They got that advisory
group together
during Project Blue Book, was
an offset of Project Blue Book.
And they found
that certain people
that spoke certain
languages seemed to attract.
Now, a lot of
people don't realize
that Project Blue Book wasn't
just in the United States.
It operated at air force
bases all over the world.
So if there was a local
sighting in a particular country
such as Germany or Turkey
or other countries, Greece,
the Air Force would go
out and investigate that.
Very few people know that,
but that's how it operated.
And they found out, this
particular advisory group
within Blue Book, found
out that certain languages
such as Hungarian, people
who spoke Hungarian,
Albanian, attracted people.
And we also found a long time
ago-- and I'm not sure where.
I don't have the knowledge
of where this was found.
But we found a piece of
metal with some script on it
at a crash site.
I don't know where
this occurred.
It wasn't at Roswell,
but it might have been
at Aztec or someplace else.
But anyways, we had this.
And we found out that
this script was almost
identical to Tibetan script.
And we sent people,
myself included
and some other scientists,
we went to Nepal, Kathmandu,
Nepal.
And we did some
research on this.
And we found in a
Buddhist monastery
a script that had the same
characters as we found
in this extraterrestrial craft.
Now, what does that mean?
Does that mean that the
Tibetans are from outer space
or the Nepalese are?
I don't know.
I didn't analyze it.
I'm not an expert in that area.
But there's similarities
in languages, I believe,
between the extraterrestrials
and Earthlings.
>>EMERY: Were you able to
decipher that at all over time?
>>DOTY: It was a
form of a greeting.
This script, at least
in the Tibetan text,
it was a greeting, similar
to a hello, how are you?
It's not exactly
that translation.
It was a greeting,
form of a greeting.
And so they figured
that this piece
of metal with the
script on it maybe
was going to be presented to
us as a form of a greeting
or something similar to that.
But it was in a crash site of a
UFO, someplace-- and I'm sorry,
but I just don't know where.
But I knew they had it, because
they had it at Los Alamos.
And so they
connected that with--
and the only language
they found close to this
was in Tibet or in
Tibetan language.
>>EMERY: And this was inscripted
in a piece of metal, you said.
>>DOTY: Yes, it was on a piece
of metal found in a crash site.
Now, I think the scientists
figured there was more,
because it was a piece.
There's probably more written
on this or more script on it,
but they only
recovered one piece.
And it had this--
I don't know.
>>EMERY: Was it thick like
a book or a very thin piece
of metal?
>>DOTY: No, it was very thick.
Very thick.
Possibly-- maybe a book.
>>EMERY: Hmm.
Rick, thank you for
being on the show.
Always appreciate having you.
>>DOTY: My pleasure being here.
>>EMERY: I'm Emery Smith, and
this is "Cosmic Disclosure."
Until next time.
[THEME MUSIC]